.\" Man page for trex
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
.TH TREX 1 "2026-06-03" "trex" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
trex \- save, restore, and manage tmux sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B trex
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B trex
serializes every tmux session, window, and pane (names, layouts, working
directories, options, commands) to a JSON file and recreates them later.
Restore happens in three passes: create sessions and panes, apply layouts
and options, re-issue running commands.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B save, s
Save tmux sessions to disk.
.RS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-current
Save only the current tmux session.
.TP
.BI name
Save a specific tmux session by name.
.RE
.TP
.B restore, r
Restore saved tmux sessions.
.RS
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Restore silently. No output and no error on missing data.
.RE
.TP
.B ls, l
List saved session names.
.TP
.B status, st
Show saved session count and last-saved timestamp.
.TP
.B remove, rm
Remove saved sessions.
.RS
.TP
.B \fIname\fR
Remove a specific session by name.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Remove all saved sessions.
.RE
.TP
.B ignore, ig
Exclude a session from future saves.
.RS
.TP
.B \fIname\fR
Session name to ignore.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list
Show currently ignored sessions.
.RE
.TP
.B unignore, uig
Stop ignoring a session. It will be included in the next save.
.TP
.B auto, a
Manage auto-restore on shell start.
.RS
.TP
.B enable
Append a restore hook to \(ti.bashrc / \(ti.zshrc / \(ti.profile.
.TP
.B disable
Remove auto-restore hooks and clean up systemd service.
.RE
.TP
.B update, up
Download and replace the running binary with the latest release.
Falls back to \(c8cargo install\(c9 if no prebuilt binary exists.
.TP
.B help
Print help information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $TREX_DIR/sessions.json
Saved session data (JSON). Default:
.IR $XDG_DATA_HOME/trex/sessions.json .
.TP
.I $TREX_DIR/ignore
List of session names to exclude from saves.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TREX_DIR
Override the data directory. Defaults to
.IR $XDG_DATA_HOME/trex .
.TP
.B SHELL
Used by \(c8auto enable\(c9 to pick the correct rc file.
.TP
.B ZDOTDIR
Used to locate .zshrc when SHELL is zsh.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Save all sessions:
.IP
trex save
.PP
Save only the current session:
.IP
trex save \-\-current
.PP
Save a specific session:
.IP
trex save my-session
.PP
Restore all saved sessions:
.IP
trex restore
.PP
Restore silently (for shell hooks):
.IP
trex restore \-\-quiet
.PP
List saved session names:
.IP
trex ls
.PP
Remove a specific session:
.IP
trex remove my-session
.PP
Wipe all saved data:
.IP
trex remove \-\-all
.PP
Exclude a session from saves:
.IP
trex ignore my-session
.PP
Enable auto-restore on login:
.IP
trex auto enable
.PP
Update to the latest version:
.IP
trex update
.SH AUTHORS
Taha Sadough <https://github.com/tahasadough>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/tahasadough/trex/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
